PROJECT DESCRIPTION

When giving credit, a creditor/lender gives loans to a debtor/borrower based on the trust that the borrower will repay the creditor at some points in the future. In exchange for the loans provided by the lender in the present, the lender will receive  a payment as well as an interest. The most common type of loans provided is in the form of money. In this case, Credit cards and Home ownership loans are two very good examples of credit provided by lenders.

When a bank gives us a credit card, we can spend as much money as we want up to a certain limit. Since the money is certainly not ours, we are required to repay the money to the bank. Typically, we have to repay with interest as this is how the bank makes profits. However, the borrower is not always able to repay the debt. The likelihood that a borrower would not repay their loan to the lender is called 'Credit Risk'. In this case, the bank will certainly suffer a substantial loss. In addition, it is likely that a lender will have to sustain a substantial cost in an effort to recover an outstanding debt. This is called a 'Collection Cost'. The event itself when a borrower cannot repay their debt is called 'Default Event'. To protect themselves again borrowers' default the lender must assess credit risk associated with each borrower very well. 

This project will make us of python to estimate 'The Expected Credit Loss', i.e. the amount a lender might lose by lending to a borrower. The establised credit risk modeling framework defines Expected Loss as the product of three components, namely Probability of Default(PD), Loss given default (LGD), and Exposure at Default (EAD). 

PD is defined as the borrowers inability to repay their debt in full or on time. In other word, it is the likelihood that a borrower will default. LGD is the proportion of the total exposure that cannot be recovered by the lender once a default has occured. EAD is the total value that a lender is exposed to when a borrower defaults.  

Logistic Regression is used to model Probability of Default as it gives the binary outcome specifying whether or not a customer has defaulted (0 means default while 1 non-default). A borrower is considered default in this case when they cannot pay their debt within the period of 90 days after using the credit card. The Independent variable for this model will include all indicators for default/non-default. 